for years alien wear's laptops have been
absolutely insane out of this world
machines that are insanely fast that you
maybe don't actually want cuz using them
in real life kind of sucked well
hopefully they're going to change that
here today cuz we have the new M16 R2
that promises to be kind of practical
but first let's have a look at the power
adapter to see just how fast this might
be you're looking at 240 WS which is
being delivered over a barrel Jack now
at that kind of a wattage it is pretty
difficult to get it over USB type-c so I
will accept the barrel Jack but it's
still not my favorite cuz this is a
massive power adapter is there anything
else in here we got a little manual do
we have any stickers oh stickers heck
yeah so here we have the new
M16 and it is looking pretty good it
actually looks a lot like Dell's gaming
laptops like G3 G5 that kind of more
budget stuff but this is definitely a
bit more premium how heavy is this it
feels pretty like given that I know
there's a 4070 in here one sec 5.4 lb
that's pretty heavy but not too bad
given that it's a gaming laptop and with
the charger we're up to O nearly
6.9 for context that's a total carry
weight just over 3 Kg looking at the iio
it is quite solid on the right side we
have a micro SD card reader and two type
A ports that are in the exact correct
spot to make sure that if you have a
Wired Mouse it runs straight into the
wire right there very bad placement but
I'm glad that they have them we also
have Thunderbolt 4 USB type-c that
connects directly to the dgpu HDMI 2.1
our power input right there on the left
side we have headphone microphone combo
Jack and 2.5 GB land which I really like
to see
looking at the design overall the
materials are quite premium although it
does kind of look like a laptop from
like 3 4 years ago this really isn't
giving me designed in 2023 Vibes but
that said look at the size of this
trackpad it is Tiny compared to the
amount of space that they could have
used if they really wanted to go for it
for comparison here is the origin laptop
that we use for screen recording on our
short circuit set it is a slightly
larger laptop
but just look at the size difference of
those track pads it is complete night
and day looking at the design overall
again it is very reserved but it is very
high quality as you can see there's very
little Flex around the keyboard it's
very well built we also can see where
all of the cooling is going so there's a
whole bunch of vents here vents on the
sides and vents on the back back so I
believe it's sucking in from the bottom
and blowing out there and there and
there and there and it's really loud at
the moment what are you doing overdrive
button Works confirm that and we also
confirmed the segue to our sponsor
thanks to updf for sponsoring this video
updf is your ultimate AI PDF assistant
powered by GPT 40 whether you're on
Windows Mac iPad iOS or Android updf
makes editing annotating OCR siding
compressing sharing and converting PDFs
a breeze its clean and user-friendly
interface is great for everyone from
beginners to Pros up PDF's AI is helpful
for summarizing papers especially in
science and engineering by pulling out
key info like abstracts and conclusions
and it works in over 30 languages plus
it can translate text while you read it
check out you PDF by using the link down
in the description looking at this
display the first thing that I'm
noticing is that it's not particularly
bright although it is a matte display so
Props for that alien wear it gets up to
375 nits as tested by our Labs which
means it's fine enough indoors I have it
maxed right now and it's acceptable
enough but at the same time you try and
take this outside not going to happen
you are not going to see a thing and
that is compounded by the gamma leaning
a little bit towards the darker end so
things that are black are going to be
more blacker on here so you're dark
areas might be not quite as bright as
you would expect that said though the
color accuracy of this panel is
absolutely fantastic it covers 100% of
srgb although it only covers srgb you
don't get a wider color space than that
we measured an average Delta e2000 of
1.42 which is absolutely fantastic you
expect less than two to do professional
color work so as long as you don't need
the wider color spaces like d C ip3 or
adobe RGB you can very much trust this
display now in the future we are going
to be changing our measurements a little
bit to Delta e ITP which is a better way
of measuring the colors on a display and
this right here as our first one gets an
average Delta e ITP of
6.54 which is again really good it's not
quite as good as like a Macbook in
reference display mode but you know what
a Macbook can't do display 240 FPS
straight to your eyeballs that's right
this thing right here has a 240 HZ panel
and
1600p so that's like 1440p but a 16 by10
Edition which is just fantastic because
I really love that even gaming laptops
like this have those slightly taller
displays because it just it makes more
sense for the size of a laptop and also
it's just so much better for
professional applications browsing the
web that sort of stuff what also is
great are the specs of this thing so we
have the Intel core Ultra 7
155h if you really want it you can go up
to the ultra 9 but I suspect that's not
going to be getting you a whole lot more
performance we also have 16 GB of RAM
running at 5600 megat transfers per
second ooh and it says the form factor
is sodm which is very exciting this
might actually be upgradeable we also
have a Samsung nvme SSD that is 1 tbte
and also apparently you can set this up
in raid Zero from the factory if you
just want things to be really fast and
not very reliable we also have Intel
WiFi 7 on board we also have an Nvidia
RTX 470 that is the top speec of this
and you might know that the R1 version
of this came with up to an RTX 490 which
means that the new one is slower but as
we said at the start that is because
they were able to make this chassis way
smaller than the old one and most people
just weren't buying over a 4070 anyway
also in here we have the npu with our
Intel processor which we now know is not
powerful enough to do most of the AI
things that come with Microsoft co-pilot
so uh it's useless all right let's play
some games now uh I did just launch
rocket league and as you can hear it's
really flipping loud now one interesting
thing that our Labs noted is that even
if you're in like balanced mode or quiet
mode or whatever if it's plugged in and
you turn on a game it automatically goes
to Performance performance mode which is
why is this 100% GPU fan speed you can
see this right here the GPU is at 50 C
it does not need to be at 100% fan speed
balanced maybe quiet down please all
right it appears that we have gained 2
oh maybe three on the GPU and we now
cannot hear the fans excellent tuning D
all right this is not a very heavy game
but we are seeing 250 to 300 FPS that's
pretty darn good and especially with
this 240 HZ display I imagine this is
going to be a pretty good time if I'm
honest I was planning on kind of
complaining about this display cuz if
you look at it compared to like most of
what other gaming laptops have now which
is like oleds and stuff like that it
didn't sound like it would be too good
but now that I'm seeing it in game this
is excellent for gaming you don't
necessarily need like the darkest blacks
or the most contrast for a game cuz
sometimes that can be not even as good
if what you want to see is kind of dark
on your display we have confirmed that
this gaming laptop is much powerful
enough to play this let's head out just
changed over performance mode again
switch to Performance preset no change
settings all right we can disable it we
can go in the software we can flip a
switch and then it doesn't automatically
go to Performance mode which I quite
appreciate if you are playing a game and
it seems like things are heating up a
little bit too much you can just press
this button right here boom high
performance mode enabled there we go
from most part
I don't want that we can just very
simply have it be in Balan mode and
everything will be happy this does also
have Nvidia Advanced Optimus so you have
gsync in there of course and we also
have a direct line from the GPU directly
to your display so it can get a little
bit confused at times but for the most
part that means that you're going to
have an extra 10 or so FPS compared to
if it had to put those frames through
your igpu first to get into this display
yeah we're in valheim here and we're
looking at 75 FPS highest possible
details that's at, 1600p of course our
lab also put it through the paces so
we're looking at 104 FPS in cyberpunk
2077 159 FPS in F1 2023 and 80 FPS in
Total War Warhammer 3 and that is coming
out of the 140 wat 470 in this model of
the M16 that we have right here now that
was able to beat the Asus sephus G14
which is good cuz this is a much larger
laptop although it wasn't able to quite
match the Rog strix
g16 which you'd think would be pretty
similar at 140 W TDP on the GPU as well
but maybe they're able to just stretch
their CPUs legs a little bit more either
way this is a pretty freaking fast
laptop even if it is quite loud in that
performance mode but loads of gaming
performance is no good to you if the
keyboard is trash fortunately though
this one feels
excellent yeah this keyboard is
fantastic I'm going to give it just a
solid a there is loads of consistency
between the keys there is heaps of
travel look at that they feel really
good they have a nice tactile bump at
the top they don't bottom out in any
sort of a weird way there's enough
chassis rigidity that they are just
working really quite well now I will
briefly complain about the trackpad it's
overall pretty good the tracking solid I
haven't had any problems with it like
right clicking when I meant to left
click or stuff like that I just wish
there was more of it like I said before
there's quite a bit of space here that
they definitely could have put a
trackpad into and it kind of seems like
they just reused the old one from the
laptop that had all of that extra space
for fans and crap on the back and all of
this was moved down but instead they
just didn't bother making a new one for
this gen which is kind of disappointing
especially given that this is not a
cheap laptop it's passible I am going to
accept the size of the trackpad just
simply because Alienware did such a good
job on this keyboard so I will be okay
maybe plugging in a mouse every now and
then if I need to if it does mean that I
can comfortably type on this keyboard
for hours and hours but can I
comfortably listen to music 4
hours all right
tiny wow there's there's not a lot going
on there it's
loud but there's no base
whatsoever compared to the speakers that
I've been hearing on other laptops like
those from Asus and Razer and HP these
do not match up to what they have been
able to achieve and it's especially
disappointing cuz Dell on their XPS line
has really f fantastic speakers and it's
kind of sad that that technology wasn't
able to make it over here J's probably
also really disappointing given Dell's
streak the webcam we do have a 1080p
webcam here and it
looks okay I guess I look really blocky
and kind of blotchy and overall just not
particularly flattered by what I am
seeing but at the same time it's not
doing anything egregiously wrong it's
exposing for my face as well as I can
even though it's kind of completely
blown out right there it's so grainy and
overall trash looking that wa look at
those Halos whenever I move it the like
the image stays for a second I would say
that webcam is perfectly acceptable even
though not good at all hopefully the
Qualcomm laptops that are coming out now
will just blow this out of the water or
they do I can tell you that for sure one
thing that is very nice about this
camera though is that there's IR sensors
up here so you can use Windows hello
facial recognition to get into your
laptop which is my personal favorite way
to get into a laptop one thing I have
been noticing though is that it's
getting really warm around this it has
the exhausts on the side that are
blowing out this way and the area on the
M pad even though we haven't been gaming
for a while is really hot these are
kicking out a lot of heat and I imagine
if you to play games for half an hour an
hour or so your hand over here is going
to be getting very toasty especially if
you're gaming in the summer so note that
eight Phillips head screws later and we
are in and I am quite impressed so many
laptops these days do not have
upgradeable RAM and I love to see that
Alienware has kept on including that
here even in their mline which is you
know supposed to be a little bit thinner
and lighter this rate here huge bonus
for me so we only have 16 GB of RAM in
our model here if you need more in the
future just put in more you can just do
it super easy to do this I absolutely
love to see that kind of upgradeability
and it moves this laptop up a couple of
places for me personally also if you
want to put in a second SSD you can do
so right here if you did insc one from
the factory and if for whatever reason
Wi-Fi 7 doesn't work in a couple years
well you can just replace your Wi-Fi
card as well so that is about as good of
upgradeability as we can expect expect
from a laptop like this so good job guys
also looking at the heat sink here it's
nothing too crazy we don't have a
massive Vapor chamber we just have a
couple of heat pipes going to our vents
on the back and on the sides we've got
two fans that are just pretty typical
fans for your laptop but the star of
this show here besides our SOA memory is
the 90w hour battery now this being a
gaming laptop it's not the most
efficient in the world but we were still
able to get over 7 and 1/2 hours in our
battery life endurance test which is
pretty good for a laptop like this
something like the Asus G14 does beat it
pretty much every ryzen gaming laptop
does beat it actually but for an Intel
gaming laptop it is really quite good I
feel like it's very rare these days that
a computer manufacturer manages to just
make something that overall is solid
there's nothing about it that blew me
away I wasn't like oh an OLED screen wow
what if the same time there's nothing
really bad about it like I can wish for
a slightly larger trackpad but that's
not a deal breaker for sure and the
keyboard more than makes up for it so I
quite like it this model that we have
right here with 16 GB of RAM terab of
memory and that 470 comes in at
$1900 so it is definitely a bit
expensive but it is also quite in line
with everyone else and in particular if
you can find one of these on sale I
would jump on it just like I'm going to
jump jump onto the end of this video hit
like get subscribed and just have a
great all day see you later Labs just
asked if I want to talk about the max
spec version that's 3,800 bucks I don't
that's stupid don't buy that one just
upgrade it yourself